I am absolutely smitten with the Asus
Zen phone 10 it's smallish but it still
has Flagship performance great battery
life and just a ton of amazing features
that Asus has actually added to it which
is why when I heard that they were
making a Zen phone 11 I was excited
until I found out that it was going to
be the zenphone 11 Ultra and I found out
that they went big mode and alongside
the size increase is a pretty radical
departure from the two large camera
lenses that we uh no and I don't know
love maybe it's gone from their textured
plastic back to a kind of smooth glass
back which honestly has a decent amount
of grip in the hand but nothing compared
to this textured plastic back it also
still maintains an aluminum frame on the
outside though this time it's recycled
aluminum because they're going
eco-friendly mode which is great we love
it uh the phone has ip68 water
resistance and on the front has Gorilla
Glass victus 2 durable Baby I really
liked this Zen Touch button that was
featured on the side of the Zen phone 10
it ended up being your fingerprint
reader as well as like you could use it
to swipe down notifications and stuff
like that it was a multi-purpose button
and I really enjoyed that feature and
now you have an unders screen
fingerprint reader and just a normal
lock button which is a little bit of a
downer in my opinion hey look at that an
included case that's always a nice value
ad I love looking at these cases look at
the size of the the look at the size for
the camera camera bump there was already
a huge camera bump you might notice that
there's a crack in my camera lens here
because it protrudes so much that it's
one of the easiest parts to hit the
ground when it falls uh elsewhere in the
box we have a charging cable a USB C to
C uh and they don't give you a wall plug
which is a bummer because it looks like
there's space in the Box for it so while
it stylistically is a departure from the
Zen phone 10 what it isn't very much a
departure from is the Rog phone it's
basically
the same you can look around you can see
that there is the volume rocker the lock
button the antenna band the camera bumps
the camera layout all the same there are
some things that they don't include like
the extra USBC port on the side but the
bottom you can even see that you got the
USBC port and the headphone jack shout
out to Asus for keeping a headphone jack
I love to see that so basically they
took the shell of the r phone and made
it a nicer phone which is okay cuz the r
Phone 8 is a great phone I'm a gamer but
I don't like it to be like my entire
personality so it's nice that you can
kind of you know something that's
presentable for like the parents or
something like that I personally think
the r phone looks a little better just
cuz it's got it feels a little bit more
intentional I think the camera bump
placement on this is kind of ugly and
alongside that ugly camera bump it also
brought a lot of the specs of the RG
phone8 which we'll get into after this
message from our sponsor thanks to game
Power for sponsoring this video there
rapid 360 monitor will have you turning
around 360° and looking right back at
the Glorious 360 HZ refresh rate and a 1
millisecond response time this 27in
monitor features a 90° rotatable 1080p
IPS display that supports freesync and
g-sync whether you're an elite gamer or
an extreme spreadsheet you're sure to
appreciate not just the tasteful RGB on
the back but also a neat little
projector that can display a custom logo
right under your monitor check out the
game Power rapid 360 at the link down
below the phone ships with with a
Snapdragon 8 gen 3 a top-of-the-line
processor that's like a massive
improvement over the Snapdragon 8 Gen 2
the Zen phone comes with up to 16 GB of
RAM and 512 GB of storage but if you
live in the US you only get the option
of the 12 GB of RAM and 256 GB of
storage finally a win for the non us
people that feels pretty good the screen
is a 144 HZ ltpo AMOLED display which
means that it can go all the way down to
1 HZ if there's nothing on the screen
that requires a rapid refresh rate now
speaking of Rapid refresh rate that 144
Herz number is only available in games
when you're moving around the UI uh it's
just going to be at 120 HZ that high
refresh rate screen is also huge 6.7 in
but apparently it's only a 1080 screen
it's 2400x 1080 I can't really tell but
that means it's probably the same
resolution as this it looks pretty good
to me I really don't think that there's
a reason to have 4 K on your uh phone
display uh it's too small it just is you
don't need the higher pixel density and
if it increases battery life that's
great speaking of battery the battery in
this phone is 5,500 milliamp hours which
might not seem that big for this big of
a phone but it's just the same size as
the one in the r Phone 8 which is a hm
who would have thought that that would
happen but the Zen phone 10 has a
smaller battery and it has killer
battery life and according to the
results from the Lambs this thing is a
battery King in our longevity test where
we watch YouTube at 1080p at a
brightness of 250 nits the Zen phone
Ultra got 22 hours and 11 minutes of
screen on time which is insane in
comparison the Google pixel 8 Pro gets
just 14 hours and 11 minutes the phone
does support 65 wat fast charging which
obviously isn't the fastest compared to
like the 100 watt Chargers out there
still pretty good but they didn't
include a charger in the box so we
tested our battery charging with a 30
watt charger and in about half an hour
you'll see about 44% of your battery
filled up with a 30 W charger which is
still pretty good especially if that
means that you get around 10 hours of
battery life remaining on the phone the
time for a full charge was around 75
minutes at 30 WTS so still pretty good
let's take a look at the screen and as
you can see from the top down camera
this is a bright display with the auto
brightness on the screen can go as high
as
2,483 nits that will only really happen
outside with the sun shining on it but
that's crazy good and makes it really
really easy to use outside if you turn
the auto brightness off and you just
manually set it the max will get is
still a very high 1,000 nits let's
listen to the
speakers I mean they're they're pretty
[Music]
loud that's not bad those are pretty
good
speakers they definitely do some
processing to like make it sound even
louder at the top but with that this
kind of makes this like a bit of a media
monster if you got this great screen on
it plus great speakers now the display
might look good but can you take good
photos the biggest weakness on the Zen
phone 10 is probably its camera system
it takes photos and it takes them okay
uh I think asus's camera software is a
little bit finicky and also they don't
really have the great processing that
you can find on pixels or Samsung phones
however they have upgraded from two
sensors to three so now we have a 13
megap Ultra wide camera a telephoto that
comes in at 32 megapixels and a main
shooter that comes in at a whopping 50
megapixels but obviously resolution
doesn't matter if the phone can't do
stuff very well I found it on the Zen
phone 10 that the W Ultra wide was far
worse of a camera than the main sensor
and just taking a quick look in what is
pretty gnarly setting I mean just
through the viewfinder you can see that
the ultra wide does not handle light
nearly as well as that main sensor and
in this lighting there's kind of a haze
that comes over the telephoto lens is
that like I've never really seen that
before the telephoto doesn't have a
crazy like 10x Zoom or anything like
that but in the camera app you can go
all the way up for a digital crop to 30
times Zoom um and it looks grainy and in
terms of the camera processing a lot of
the colors kind of get mushed down
and uh things kind of start to look
synthetic because you lose a lot of
these details it looks competent and
it's like good enough but one thing I
know from using my zen phone is that I
really would miss the quality that I got
when I was using a pixel uh just
switching over to the selfie camera we
have a 32 megapix front sensor and it um
it looks pretty good in this lighting so
on top of that there's also a ton of AI
features of cuz of course there's AI
features cuz it's 2024 and if you don't
have an AI feature I mean what are you
oh the there's AI smart search for your
photos it's going to use object
recognition to search through your
photos for you apparently you can also
search for apps which again doesn't
sound like AI or you can deep and smart
search for settings okay the portrait
video is an interesting feature
basically it's supposed to allow you to
have like a depth of field effect where
it'll focus on a certain face and then
it'll do a processed blur all around it
uh they have a six AIS gimbal for your
video so you can get really steady
motion and it it works quite well I'm
going to make sure that we have it set
up here the hyper steady will limit the
resolutions that you can record at
probably because it's going to be doing
some sort of cropping at the edges so
that you can get more balance so you
aren't able to shoot at the 8K 24 frames
per second that the phone is capable of
though I don't know why you're taking 8K
video it can also do 4K 60 on the video
let's see how good it is let's see it's
pretty good that's it's pretty stable
let's take a look at the regular video
quality which lab specifically said was
uh actually quite good we'll just do
normal stabilization
just from the viewfinder things are
actually looking quite good color seem
accurate there's not a ton of noise when
I look at the darker scenes it seems
like the mic is pretty sensitive to
noise to like being bumped and stuff
though maybe something to note but again
it's a competent camera it would be
interesting to see if installing gcam
could maybe like give you an extra Edge
in terms of photo processing but uh who
knows what I know is I want a game on
this despite this not being an Rog phone
you still get to take advantage of like
the game genie features that are on the
r Phone 8 which includes stuff like
setting frame rate limits or increasing
your overall performance like and not
worrying about the heat however I think
lab saw from testing that if you let
this thing go absolutely unhinged it
gets really hot and it can be
uncomfortable to hold and honestly
apparently the performance holds pretty
steady even at like not Full Tilt so you
can adjust the refresh
rate bunch of other stuff you can do
macros uh uh picture and picture if you
want a video over top you can speed up
the systems optimized now boys we're
playing genin impact on high
settings and uh it's not quite at the
full resolution of the screen but it is
definitely good enough and we are
seeing a pretty solid 60 FPS even in a
busy scene like this Castle town area
and Labs confirms that it plays well uh
apparently it runs warmer than the Rog
phone in most settings but you still get
a pretty consistent near 60 FPS with 58
average frames per second in this
specific area of the game on a 30-minute
play session the performance mode
offered slightly higher frame rates at
higher quality settings but the thermal
management of the S so would throttle
the phone down to about 50% performance
and it kind of made things worse so they
recommend that you keep it in Dynamic
mode as opposed to going for the
performance mode which you can all
control through the game genie zero
complaints about gaming performance it's
just a solid chipset the Snapdragon 8
Gen 3 is a heck of a chip one thing that
I've find very frustrating about their
software is that their display settings
they have this thing called Splendid
like what does any of this mean should
my phone be an optimal natural or
standard it's useless uh the correct
answer is that you want it at natural
and you want to turn it a little bit
warmer that's enough of me griping nice
things to have on here Wi-Fi 7 as well
as they have like a dual band mode
that's really sick so you can get a
really stable Wi-Fi connection on here
they also have Bluetooth 5.4 which means
it supports a lot of the upcoming
Bluetooth features like Bluetooth low
energy audio and the aura cast stuff so
great for a you know future proofing the
big thing about this phone is that it's
nice it's competent it's capable but
outside of its battery life it doesn't
really Excel where any large Flagship
phones don't the cameras are not as good
as the ones that you can find on iPhones
or pixels or Galaxy S whatever's the
number is at now the software experience
is good a big fan of it but is not say
as gimmicky or as uh doesn't have the
really cool features that pixel can
bring another thing is that you get two
major OS updates and four years of
security updates but that's not really
great when competitors are offering a
lot more and the biggest killer feature
for me which was the size being so
reasonable has um has been gone and now
we have like another big phone I guess
if this is what Asus needs to do to
remain in the
market um and Ed and sell more phones I
guess it's good because I love a lot of
what Asus does with their phones and I
love that there's more competition in
the space but like it's going to suffer
from the same flaws that this phone has
and that like I can't find a good case
for this or I cracked this lens and I
can't find a replacement part for it and
I don't want to have to like send it
into Asus to get it fixed I would love
to be able to just swap the lens out
myself and that's because it's a small
volume phone I just worry that this
phone no longer has enough
differentiation to make it worth buying
over a OnePlus or a pixel or an iPhone
and the price is
$900 which is like pretty high up there
I mean this was not a cheap phone either
but again that's a very very competitive
territory where you're seeing a lot of
the best phones on the market sitting at
after using the phone I am less
disappointed than I thought I would be
but I still feel a little bit of a
betrayal for Asus leaving the small
phone market I'm hoping that because
there's a suffix maybe there will be a
Zen phone 11 non-ultra that will be
small and not sacrifice too many of the
specs but I'm not holding my breath and
I'll keep holding on to this Banger of a
phone I love
you and I love you for watching short
circuit if you liked this video uh why
don't you check out Mr Jake bance's
video on the Zen phone 10